---
layout: post
title: "Litter 1: Queen Sapphire Aurora"
color: Seal Bicolor and carries recessive blue gene.
expected: A happy bundle of Seal Bicolor, Seal Bicolor Van and Seal Mitted
  kittens was born on March 19, 2021.
thumbnail: /assets/img/uploads/img_e7764.jpg
reserved: All have Forever Homes :)
---
All these kittens from Sapphire and Tzar are reserved and have wonderful Forever Homes :)

They all have snuggly social personalities and are currently busy bothering Nanny Sophia, the dog.

Often Sapphire and Tzar have a lighter colored seal kitten that we cannot call blue...but it is definitely lighter color than the regular seals. they are exceptionally pretty cats. If you look on our Facebook page for Alabaster Binx and Bright Dandelion both of these were these lighter seal kittens; very beautiful kittens indeed. Both also have exceptional personalities. This litter we have two kittens like this. 

We do not plan to breed Sapphire again until 2022. Sapphire always puts everything into her kittens as she is such a good mom, and she deserves a good, long break from having kittens. 

When you cross Tzar and Sapphire you *always* have 3 types of kittens:

Seal bicolor

Seal mitted

Seal bicolor Van

Sometimes there is a light seal bicolor kitten: 

Because Tzar carries a recessive lilac gene and Sapphire carries a recessive blue gene there is always the possibility of either a blue or a lilac kitten. We have yet to have this occur but we are getting these light seal kittens we think is due to these recessive genes partially expressing themselves. In genetics world both blue and lilac are recessive genes and carry equal weight. To get either a lilac or a blue kitten  requires *both parents* must contribute their recessive gene to one  kitten or the Seal gene dominates. We believe that the lighter seal kittens we get from Tzar and Sapphire are the result of one or both of these recessive genes trying to express itself.